Title: Bicycle Race
Date: 2010-07-29 08:00
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Life
Slug: bicycle-race

This weekend I am participating in a charity bicycle ride. This is
hilarious on several levels: primarily the "charity," "bicycle," and
"ride" levels. (The "participating" level is pretty funny too.)

I've got my trusty old REI bicycle, an aftermarket memory-foam seat
designed to stave off groin-numbness, an iPhone full of motivational
music (mostly [A Night at the
Hip-Hopera](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Night_at_the_Hip_Hopera) on
repeat), some ugly pink battery-powered speakers from Best Buy, some
ugly "for kids" handlebar pouch to hold the speakers and my keys and
wallet, the cool Schwinn helmet I bought back when I was briefly the
custodian of Mateo's Target bike, a weird eyeglass-mounted rearview
mirror that's probably more distracting than it is helpful^1^, a
tight-fitting (and consequently gut-enhancing) bike jersey with rear
elastic pockets that feel too unfamiliar to trust, the
completely-inappropriate-for-serious-cycling Keen sandals I trekked all
over India in, and a huge variety of performance-enhancing drugs like
Singulair and Benadryl and Claritin. My goal is to ride 50 miles on the
first day and 300 miles on the second, although I also have secondary
goals of not getting hit by any trucks and not getting car-doored.

If I don't come back, avenge my death.

<small>\
 1. The first time I tried it, all the people I was riding with asked me
how I liked it. "Well," I offered, "you know how sometimes you get an
extra sense and it takes a while for your brain to figure out how to
integrate its inputs with your pre-existing sensory data?" Not a
transhumanist in the bunch, it turned out, and so they all looked at me
like I was crazy.\
 </small>
