Title: I Am Tired of 9/11
Date: 2011-09-11 11:42
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Life, Politics, Religion
Slug: i-am-tired-of-911

Is it too soon to be tired of 9/11? Because I am.

I'm tired of not being able to bring my pinking shears on plane trips.
I'm tired of conspiracy theories (except for ones involving
[reptilians](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reptilians).) I'm tired of
pointless wars that waste trillions of dollars that could otherwise be
funneled to unprofitable, politically-connected "green energy"
companies. And I'm especially tired of having to refrain from referring
to my penis as "the Top of the World observation deck" for fear of
getting nasty looks from some girl who knows someone who knows someone
who almost went to work that day.

I'm also tired of all the people constantly (by which I mean annually)
exhorting me to "NEVER FORGET" what happened that day. All sorts of
terrible things have happened to me over my life. There was that time I
got tricked into watching *Napoleon Dynamite*, and then there was some
sort of incident involving Nancy Drew's dog, and there was even that one
time that I almost got killed on 9/11. But after tens of thousands of
dollars of psychotherapy, hypnotherapy, craniosacral therapy, sandplay
therapy, and reiki work, I've learned that "NEVER FORGET" is pretty much
the worst advice there is, with the possible exceptions of "Be
yourself", "Girls can't resist a guy who can chug a bottle of Tabasco
sauce", and "Vote for Obama".

That doesn't mean I can't remember some of the *lessons* of that event,
like "avoid Manhattan" and "don't ignore the 'STAY HOME FROM WORK TODAY
JEWS!' phone message" and "don't wait too long to see that tourist
attraction, lest some Muslims hijack and crash an airplane into it." But
these are lessons to put into practice *everyday*, not just in early
September, and not just in years that end in a 1. And the more you
"NEVER FORGET" the last crisis, the less prepared you are for the next
*different* one.

So, sure, wear your [patriotic
shirt](http://www.sheplers.com/roper-mens-short-sleeve-flag-print-shirt.html?Source=Froogle)
and eat your [patriotic
foods](http://sweet-station.com/blog/2011/06/obama-sushi-rolls/) and
click "like" on the "Like this if you are watching this on September
11th" comments on [patriotic YouTube
videos](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q65KZIqay4E). But while you're
busy trying to "NEVER FORGET" what already happened, I'll be thinking up
jokes for what's happening next. Advantage: Joel.
