Title: Political Satire
Date: 2010-09-28 08:15
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Politics, Seattle, Writing
Slug: political-satire

Once I left Microsoft I joined a Daytime Writing Group meetup, mostly as
an excuse to get out of the house. Every week I'd go and share the
latest chapter of my "Ayn Rand meets J.K. Rowling meets Joseph Heller
meets Tom Wolfe" novel-in-progress and listen to everyone else's latest
vampire romance (the genre, not the band^\*^).

While most of the participants were pleasant and helpful, after a few
weeks we were joined by an extremely unpleasant woman who angrily
criticized my story for not being set in the "country" of Timbuktu and
for not acknowledging the accomplishments of "shamanic healers." After a
couple of weeks I decided that the positive interactions with the rest
of the group weren't enough to compensate for the aggravation of dealing
with Large Miss Unpleasant, and I stopped attending.

But I'm still on the mailing list, which is how I learned that
Daily-Show co-founder Lizz Winstead was conducting a "Political Satire
Writing Workshop." Of course there's nothing I like better than writing
political satire, unless it's writing religious satire or spreadsheet
how-to books or short stories about a boy who likes to play baseball but
is no good at it.

Being Seattle, it ended up being more of a "Left-Wing Political Satire
Writing Workshop," with a collective glee focused on the comedic
potential of Dick Cheney's lack of pulse, Dick Cheney's daughter's
self-hating lesbianness, something else Dick Cheney, and the word
"teabagger."

Still, we had a valuable discussion about comedy writing and the
creative process, and I bit my tongue whenever people mocked a
candidate's dabbling in "witchcraft" as if its beliefs were *prima
facie* more ludicrous than the beliefs of Catholicism or Judaism.

Since we were in the International (i.e. East Asian) District, we took a
break for bubble tea, after which we divided into groups to bang out
some political satire projects.

Most of the suggestions were things I couldn't in good conscience write
about ("teabaggers," disparaging the Second Amendment, etc...), but one
of my workshopmates suggested a news item about a Republican Senator who
gave a somewhat oblivious speech assuming that his audience (being good
Americans) all earned over \$250,000K a year.

The truth, when we Googled it, was slightly less damning (the audience
consisted of Chamber of Commerce members), but "Senator lives in insular
world, assumes everyone is rich like him" was something I could work
with. It was a group effort, so there are ideas in it that I wouldn't
have put in myself, but -- for a political satire piece written
collaboratively with other Seattleites -- it's actually not bad.

You can see it (along with the other groups' pieces -- ours is the one
that's not about Glenn Beck or "Teabaggers")
[here](http://lizzwinstead.posterous.com/seattle-writers-welcome-to-your-work),
first in an edited-by-Lizz version, then in the original. I like the
edited version better in some ways, worse in others, and I'd probably
like [some compromise
version](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convex_preferences) the best.

At the end I gifted Lizz with a copy of my book, which I predict she
enjoys all the way up to the "Environmentalism is false" chapter.

<small>\* My fact-checker tells me there's no such band as Vampire
Romance. Well, there should be!</small>
