Title: The Hardest Job There Is
Date: 2012-04-13 07:40
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Joelene, Life, Personal, Politics
Slug: the-hardest-job-there-is

One summer during college I was stringing together temp jobs in order to
make money so that I could afford to go out with my friends at night and
play "Star Trek" pinball. (I would have preferred, of course, to spend
my summer developing my idea for a "group couponing" website, but as the
summer in question predated widespread adoption of the Internet, the
decision was out of my hands.)

These were super-boring temp jobs, involving things like data-entering
anonymous "secret shopper" surveys for Jersey Subs, filing papers
alphabetically, and going through medical bills with a red pen to make
sure that the prices didn't exceed prescribed rates. (The last was the
worst, as their computer system ran on
[OS/2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OS/2), which some genius decided
should have *chess* rather than Minesweeper, which made it very
difficult to blow off steam after decimating a particularly tough bill,
which is why I originally took up amphetamines.)

At some point the temp work simply dried up, possibly because there were
no more medical bills, possibly because no one was willing to eat at
Jersey Subs anymore, possibly because of the amphetamines. And so my dad
arranged it that I could work for a friend of his who owned a warehouse
of surplus metal parts.

What were these metal parts? I have no idea. They were large and heavy
and in bins on pallets, and it's possible they were used to repair
trains, or in air conditioning, or as weapons. They came in various
shapes and sizes and weights (heavy \*and\* very heavy), and every day
orders would pour into the warehouse that some company wanted 137 of the
metal pieces from bin A17. My job, then, was to retrieve bin A17 (which
involved a forklift, which was sort of cool, except that I never got the
hang of rear-wheel steering and always ended up crashing into things)
and get an empty pallet and then manually choose 137 of the least-rusty
metal pieces from bin A17 and pile them onto the empty pallet, all the
while counting (and then double-counting) to make sure that there were
indeed exactly 137 of them. Then I'd put the bin back and move on to the
next order of 94 metal pieces from bin C29, and so on, and so forth.

(To this day, it is tough for me to imagine a job that is a worse
mismatch for my aptitudes and preferences, except possibly for building
model histories of men's shoes.)

At the end of each day I would collect my pay (which was itself in
non-descript metal pieces) and go home and take painkillers and try to
scrub all the fine metal grit off my skin and try to cough all the fine
metal grit out of my lungs and then cry myself to sleep and have
nightmares about counting metal pieces. All of which, quite obviously,
left no time for "Star Trek" pinball.

And so after a week, over the vociferous objections of my parents, who
insisted that the metal pieces I was earning were likely to represent
the difference between success and failure in life, I quit. Accordingly,
I have blamed the various subsequent failures in my life on the metal
pieces that never were.

So it stood until this week, when Hilary Rosen (who, for reasons
inexplicable to me, is still allowed to show her face in public after
her stint running the RIAA) made some crack disparaging Mitt Romney's
wife for being a stay-at-home mom. Tactically this was moronic, as
everyone knows plenty of admirable stay-at-home moms, and also everyone
knows that the most fruitful line of attack on Mitt Romney's wife is
that she *married Mitt Romney*, and let's see how her "the angel Moroni
pointed a shotgun at us and said we had to" excuse plays in the court of
public opinion.

Which means that everyone and his brother is rushing to throw Hilary
Rosen under one of a variety of buses. Bill Donohue, for instance, wants
to throw her under some sort of "lesbian parent" bus, which I'm pretty
sure runs on biodiesel, and I would love to throw her under the "she ran
the RIAA, which means that nothing she says should ever be listened to
by anyone ever" bus, but most people are focusing on the old "[parenting
is the hardest job there
is](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/ann-romney-i-know-what-its-like-to-struggle/2012/04/12/gIQA9tOqCT_blog.html)!"
bus.

It turns out, though, that I'm a parent, and so I happen to know that
**PARENTING IS NOT EVEN CLOSE TO THE HARDEST JOB THERE IS**. Metal piece
warehouse was a harder job. Burger King was a harder job. Even MATH
FREAKING GRAD SCHOOL was a harder job. (As some versions of the bus
insist that only *mothering* is the hardest job, I double-checked with
Ganga, and she agrees with my analysis.)

That's not to say that parenting isn't work. It is, and occasionally
it's even very unpleasant work, like when it's 3am and the baby won't
sleep and will scream if you don't rock her, and you still haven't
prepared your slides for your 8am meeting with Hilary Rosen to present
your new plan for permanently ruining the lives of music-downloading
teenagers, and all you want to do is sleep and use your dreams to figure
out a way to pretend like you care about "artists". Or when she poops on
you. (The baby, not Hilary Rosen, although that also sucks.) Or when
you're trying to write a blog post making fun of Hilary Rosen and the
baby won't stop screaming in your ear and banging on your
keywinevsoivdkdsvl

But parenting is also a lot of *fun*. It's a huge joy when you finally
teach your kid how to [Chicken
Dance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6UV3kRV46Zs), or when she learns
to swear, or the first time she asks you "please can you read me one
more chapter before bed, daddy?" of *Atlas Shrugged*. No metal part ever
even asked me about *The Fountainhead*!

I recognize that it's uncharacteristic of me to stake out the middle
ground like this, but I guess having a kid has been a deeply moderating
influence and has taught me the value of compromise. So can't we all
just agree that parenting is nowhere near as hard as sorting and lifting
and counting metal parts, that Hilary Rosen has no place in polite
society, and that babies love *Atlas Shrugged*?
