Title: Toys "R" Us and/or the Chinese are Trying to Kill Me with Poison Monkeys
Date: 2010-08-10 18:33
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Personal
Slug: toys-r-us-andor-the-chinese-are-trying-to-kill-me-with-poison-monkeys

For Christmas I bought my girlfriend a matched set of pink-and-purple
monkeys at ToysRUs. I thought they'd make a good gift because she likes
purple and she likes monkeys.^1^ We named the pink one Gulab ("pink")
and the purple one Jamun ("purple") and they quickly became an
indispensible part of our household, participating in family rituals
like "Law and Order: Criminal Intent" and "Law and Order: Special
Victims Unit" and "Law and Order: Criminal Intent but with Jeff
Goldblum."

![](https://joelgrus.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/gulabjamun-768x1024.jpg "gulabjamun")

Then a few days ago we were at the mall, so we popped into ToysRUs again
to see what was new on the unnaturally-colored monkey front. This season
they're showing eerie
[3399FF](http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Blue_3399FF.svg)
monkeys. I picked one up and discovered [the following
Happy-Fun-Ball-esque
sticker](http://community.babycenter.com/post/a23573113/wtf_toys_r_us_update?cpg=1&csi=2185213742&pd=-6):

> Warning: Contains lead. Maybe be harmful if chewed on. May also
> release dust that contains lead.

Presumably this describes my monkeys as well, as they appear to be the
same species as the poisonous ones. The way I see it, there are two
(non-exclusive) possibilities:

**(a.)** Gulab and Jamun contain trivial amounts of lead, and the
stickers represent
[CPSIA-ish](http://www.handmadetoyalliance.org/Resources/TheProblemsWiththeCPSIA.aspx)
overcaution.\
 **(b.)** Chinese people and/or ToysRUs are trying to kill me.

Alas, as many baby showers as I've ruined by using the traditional "wish
the mom well" time for diatribes against Henry Waxman and the CPSC^2^, I
can't rule out the second possibility.

Accordingly, Gulab and Jamun are going in the trash^3^.

Farewell, my deadly friends. We'll always have that episode where Jeff
Goldblum matched his wits against those of a clever criminal and somehow
came out on top.^4^

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<small>1. Technically, *I'm* the one who likes monkeys.</small>

<small>2. And also diatribes against circumcision, although those aren't
particularly relevant to this story.</small>

<small>3. "Everybody in the kitchen. We're having a family meeting."\
 "We never had a family meeting before..."\
 "We never had a problem with a family member we can give away
before."</small>

<small>4. By "always" I mean "until I die from lead poisoning."</small>
