Title: For Hire
Date: 2010-05-10 21:01
Author: joelgrus
Slug: hire

I work at Google now.

<s>I am gainfully employed as Chief Scientist and Head of Analytics at
[VoloMetrix](http://volometrix.com), so I'm not actually for hire right
now, although I could possibly still be talked into writing an article
or doula-ing.</s>

<s>Although Joel is supposed to be spending all of his time writing
books, he can occasionally be tempted (usually with money) into
short-term forays into other occupations. Here are just a few
possibilities:

### Data Analysis

Joel is very, very good at analyzing complex datasets using tools like
Excel and SQL and Python and R. He could help you or your organization
get better at these things too.

He also has lots of opinions about how best to visualize data, how best
to think about data, and how best to extract value from data. He'd
probably share some of these opinions if you asked. He might share his
opinions even if you don't ask, and sometimes he will even if you ask
him not to.

### Teaching

Joel could run a really smoking seminar on how to become an expert Excel
user. Joel is also pretty good at teaching Calculus, although these days
who isn't?

### Lecturing

Joel could craft and deliver a [humorous
lecture](http://vimeo.com/3575931) on the topic of your choice. Or on
the topic of his choice. Also, it wouldn't have to be humorous. It could
be funereal instead.

### Writing

Joel could totally write an article for you. Or a short story,
especially one about a boy who likes to play baseball but is no good at
it.

### Consulting

Joel would be happy to tell you how to run your business.

### Life Coaching

Joel would be happy to tell you how to run your life.

### Doula-ing

Joel has a large collection of placenta jokes that are hard to work into
normal conversation.

The options are endless. So get in touch.</s>
