Title: Doubling the Compost Box
Date: 2011-12-07 21:13
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Education
Slug: doubling-the-compost-box

If you are on Facebook you have probably seen the articles about [the
unnamed school board
member](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/answer-sheet/post/when-an-adult-took-standardized-tests-forced-on-kids/2011/12/05/gIQApTDuUO_blog.html)
who couldn't do any of the math problems on the math standardized test
(and who couldn't pass the reading section). Most of the discussion drew
the conclusion that the tests were too hard for 10th graders and covered
topics that were irrelevant to success (at least, if "success" is
defined by being an unnamed school board member).

(There was also an unspoken undercurrent that, as standardized testing
had been embraced by the Pepsi party, maligning it was a good signal of
one's allegiance to the Coke party.)

The article, of course, did not give any *examples* of the questions
that were too hard, leaving open the alternative hypothesis that perhaps
one simply doesn't have to be very bright to serve on a school board.
(Having casually observed the Seattle School Board over the last several
years, I am inclined toward this position.)

You probably didn't see [the follow-up
article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/answer-sheet/post/revealed-school-board-member-who-took-standardized-test/2011/12/06/gIQAbIcxZO_blog.html)
outing the test failer as someone with a Bachelor's in Education (which
he describes as a "Bachelor of Science", making it sound like he has a
science degree, which he doesn't), a Master's in Education, and a
Master's in Educational Psychology. Given my prior that each of these
degrees is worthless (except, of course, for its value in jumping
through some sort of public-servant-pay-grade hoop), I feel even safer
about my alternative hypothesis.

Luckily, the second article names the test. It's the Florida
Comprehensive Assessment Test, and the state of Florida has thoughtfully
provided [sample questions](http://fcat.fldoe.org/fcatit09.asp) on the
web. The questions are not particularly interesting, nor are they
particularly hard:

![](https://joelgrus.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/compostbox.png "compostbox")

(Although the test is quite plainly biased against students from
cultures that lack access to composting.)

What is interesting is his final criticism:

> The math section, he said, tests information that most people donâ€™t
> need when they get out of school.

There is a sense in which this is true. Most people never compute the
volumes of composting bins. (Although if the city of Seattle gets its
way, soon we'll all be forced to.)

There's also a larger sense in which it's false. Solving word problems
*is* a valuable skill (that most people sadly lack), and word problems
have to be about *something*. And whatever that something is, probably
most kids will never have to know its specifics again.

But there's a bigger sense in which it's irrelevant. *Most* of what you
learn in high school (insofar as you learn anything) is information that
you'll never need again. I myself have forgotten almost all of my
American history (although I remember our teacher's stories about her
redneck neighbors, who used to jump out of their second-story door after
their deck collapsed), almost all of my chemistry (although I remember
that the teacher had a toy stuffed mole named Avogadro), almost all of
my English lit (although I remember that F. Scott Fitzgerald liked to
use "flower imagery"), almost all of my Spanish (although I remember
listening to cassette tapes of commercials for "Pal-mo-LEE-vay"), almost
all of the pep rallies (although I remember that DHS Wildcats are
"paw-some"), almost all of the motivational assemblies (although I
remember the "what thou see-est, that thou be-est" guy), and almost all
of my classmates (although I remember Josh Adams, because he visits
Seattle every 10 years or so).

And the things you *do* need to know vary a lot from person to person.
While it's important to me that the Wildcats are paw-some, it might be
equally important to Josh Adams that when the Wildcats rock the house
they rock it all the way down. A test that asks about one neglects the
other, and vice versa.

To the extent that most of what you learn in school is useless (and,
believe me, most of what you learn in school is useless), any test that
makes sure you actually learned it is going to be testing information
that you don't actually need. Blaming the test for that hardly seems
fair.

And to the extent that your fancy degrees in education are useless (and,
believe me, your fancy degrees in education are useless), then they're
not going to help you answer questions on a test. Again, blaming the
test hardly seems fair.

All that said, standardized tests are essentially a 19th-century
technology, and fixing education will almost certainly entail getting
rid of them (although merely getting rid of them will not fix education
in the slightest). I don't mean to offer a blanket defense for them,
only a defense against the criticism "I have three degrees and can't do
the test and therefore the problem is with the test."

That leaves only the unresolved issue that you don't have to be
particularly competent to be on the school board, although if
progressive Seattle [is cool with
it](http://cliffmass.blogspot.com/2011/07/saving-seattles-schools.html),
then I imagine everyone else is too.
