Title: How I Became a Published Author, Part 1
Date: 2010-06-05 08:21
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Meta, Writing
Slug: how-i-became-a-published-author-part-1

Once upon a time I wasn't much of a writer. In high school I wrote
crappy requisite [five-paragraph
essays](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_paragraph_essay) about [T.S.
Eliot](http://www.bartleby.com/198/1.html) and [F. Scott
Fitzgerald](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tender_Is_the_Night) and [The
War Against Northern
Aggression](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naming_the_American_Civil_War),
but they were unimaginative and mostly aimed at satisfying the teachers'
expectations.

In college I went out of my way to avoid writing-heavy classes, although
for distributional reasons I had to take a few. In each case I produced
passable-but-unexceptional term papers. I'm sure if I dug them up today
I'd find them terrifically embarrassing, on account of both style and
content. (Also, I'm sure I printed them using really ugly fonts that
were popular back in the 90's.)

Many years later I found myself full of opinions, and so (as was the
fashion) I started a blog to force my poorly written harangues on the
world. Eventually I became aware of its poorly written nature, and I
deleted it. I repeated this harangue-awareness-deletion cycle several
times. (One could plausibly argue that I'm currently in the "harangue"
step of another go-round, but if one is polite one won't.)

In addition, approximately 10 (!) years ago I started a LiveJournal.
Although today people think of LiveJournal and picture a bunch of
Russians and 15-year-old emo kids, back then LiveJournal actually
consisted mostly of 15-year-old emo kids. My LiveJournal at first was
terrible, really terrible, which you'd be able to see if I hadn't at
some point become aware of how terrible it was and deleted most of it.

Over time, though, I sort of "found my voice," and I started getting
fewer and fewer "please become aware of the poorly-written nature of
your journal and delete it!" comments and more and more "please tell us
more humiliating stories about your social life!" comments. All the
while I became practiced in the twin literary techniques of *making
stuff up* and *referencing things that had happened on "Charles in
Charge" as if they'd actually happened in real life*.

[![](https://joelgrus.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/scott-baio2.jpg "scott baio2")](https://joelgrus.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/scott-baio2.jpg)

Eventually I went out and took a UCLA Extension "Introduction to Fiction
Writing" class, taught by [Noel
Alumit](http://www2.uclaextension.edu/writers/instructors.php?recordID=22),
who writes acclaimed novels about being gay and Filipino. "Where
better," I asked myself, "to learn how to write acclaimed novels about
being gay and Filipino?" I had few expectations for the class, but Noel
was an excellent teacher, and I ended up enjoying the class quite a bit.
I produced a mawkish short story about a boy who likes to play baseball
but is no good at it, which my classmates all seemed to enjoy. (My
girlfriend at the time initially refused to believe I was the author of
something so sickeningly earnest.)

After I moved to Seattle, I took a Hugo House "Improv for Writers"
course, which launched me on a 2-year detour away from writing, during
which I performed a lot of really bad improv and also tricked my friends
into watching a lot of really bad improv.

<object width="500" height="405"><param name="movie" value="https://www.youtube.com/v/UcbpV5R4PJU&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1&amp;rel=0&amp;border=1"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><embed src="https://www.youtube.com/v/UcbpV5R4PJU&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1&amp;rel=0&amp;border=1" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="500" height="405"></embed></object>

Eventually I realized that I wasn't *enjoying* doing improv, and I
walked away. (I took the [rule of
three](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_three_%28writing%29) with
me.) This left me with a bunch of spare time, which I immediately filled
with books. Every time someone mentioned a book to me, every time I read
an interesting book review, every time a blog I read endorsed a book,
I'd go online and add it to my library queue.

Once a week or so, I'd go to the library with huge shopping bags full of
overdue books, and I'd come home with a dozen or so new ones. I never
ended up reading most of these, of course, but it kept me entertained.
And then one day I read The Book That Changed My Life.

This was John Hodgman's *[The Areas of My
Expertise](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Areas_of_My_Expertise#The_51_United_States)*.
I don't know that anyone else can make such a claim, except maybe
Hodgman himself. As I mentioned last time, my literary arsenal consisted
mostly of the "writing factually about things that didn't actually
happen" trick. Before *The Areas of My Expertise*, it never occurred to
me that one could squeeze an entire book out of this trick. After *The
Areas of My Expertise*, I knew that I had to.

![](http://partyends.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/john_hodgman.jpg)

But still I needed something to write about. I had a half-finished novel
about religion sitting on my hard drive, so it seemed the natural
choice. Also, I liked to tell myself, it was a subject I knew plenty
about, and whatever I didn't know I could figure out from the internet.

I started out by writing the [Preface](http://yrif.org/introduction/). I
wrote it, and edited it, and wrote some more, and edited some more, and
eventually (maybe around the time I came up with *Nancy Drew Blood*) I
realized I had something that I thought was really, really funny. And at
that point I had no choice but to finish the book.

Historically I haven't been good at finishing things. I'm fantastic at
starting things, but I usually lack
[sticktoitiveness](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=sticktoitiveness).
Fortunately, it was a really slow time at work, and rather than worrying
that someone might realize I was unnecessary (which is what I probably
would have done if I hadn't had a side project to work on), I just spent
a lot of days going home early and writing. (After a while I became
necessary again, and after that the writing proceeded much more slowly.)

I came up with a pretty good [outline](http://yrif.org/contents/), based
largely on the related principles that (1) unexpected categories are
funny, and (2) mutually non-exclusive categories are funny. At that
point it became a matter of just putting flesh on the bones.

That makes it sound easy, but coming up with 258 pages of mockery and
Scott Baio references is hard. I spent most of my free time working on
the thing for months and months and months. And finally, when the book
was about 75% done, I decided I was ready to unleash it on the world.

Some friends of mine were organizing the BIL conference and asked if I
wanted to give a talk. This seemed like a great time to unveil the book.
(It would have been better if the book were finished and for sale at
that point, but you have to work with what you have.)

The problem was that the talk was only supposed to be 15 minutes. My
first version of the talk involved about 100 slides, which I decided was
about 6x too many to fit into 15 minutes. I triaged my jokes and used
all my [Presentation
Zen](http://www.garrreynolds.com/Presentation/slides.html) skills and
somehow got down to about 75 slides, and then I just spent the entire
plane ride practicing talking really, really fast.

![](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3313/3265724914_4fd3702f3e.jpg?v=0)

[The talk itself](http://vimeo.com/3575931) seemed well received, and I
got lots of questions about when the book would be available. So I set
myself to finishing it.

At the same time, I realized that I should start thinking about how to
get it published. I searched the web for "how to write a book proposal"
instructions, which I used to craft a proposal and send it to various
literary agents whom I also found by searching the web. I never got a
response from any of them.

Also [whurley](http://whurley.com/) put me in touch with a literary
agent he knew. Since this was a friend-of-a-friend introduction, I got
responses to my emails, although they revolved around the theme of
"yeah, I can't sell this book."

Finally, I emailed a bunch of ought-to-be-sympathetic authors asking if
they could help. The only one who responded was [Michael
Shermer](http://www.michaelshermer.com/), who opined that I'd never get
my book published by a "reputable publisher." Times were tough for
publishers, he pointed out, and their willingness to take a chance on an
unknown first-time author in a saturated genre was pretty nonexistent.

This all left me sort of in a jam. I had a mostly-finished book that I
thought was pretty damn good. And yet I couldn't get anyone in the
publishing industry to even respond to my mail.

(To be continued.)
