Title: Machine Learning Beverage
Date: 2011-09-29 21:40
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Education, Science, Technology
Slug: machine-learning-beverage

Although my formal training is in subjects like math and economics and
animal husbandry, most of the money-work I do is in subjects like data
science and fareology and writing over-the-top religious polemics. This
is one of the reasons why I'm so sour on the value of college, as my
multi-million-dollar investment in tuition and pitchers of Ice Dog beer
and Tower Party t-shirts didn't even provide me the *opportunity* to
learn any of these.

I did get to take an "Artificial Intelligence" class. The only listed
prerequisite was the "Intro to CS" class, but a brand new professor was
teaching and she decided to make it a much more advanced class, and then
I was going to partner with my friend who was a CS major so that he
could handle all the more advanced programming aspects, but he dropped
the class after a couple of weeks so he could spend his senior year
focused on "not taking classes", which meant that I got to spend *my*
senior year focused on "learning enough about computer programming to
not fail the class", after which I picked up a bit of "how to sometimes
beat the computer at tic-tac-toe" and "how to sometimes beat the
computer at Reversi" and "how to narrowly avoid coming in last place in
the classwide '[Pac War](http://www.clear.rice.edu/comp440/pac.html)'
tournament."

Despite that initial setback, over the course of my career I've managed
to learn bits and pieces of what's variously called "machine learning",
"artificial intelligence", or "guessing stuff". I suspect I would be
more popular at data mining parties if I had a smidge more training in
these subjects, and so I was very excited at the prospect of Stanford's
free online [Artificial Intelligence Class](http://www.ai-class.com/)
and [Machine Learning
Course](http://www.ml-class.org/course/class/index), both of which are
offered this fall. (There's also a Database Class, but I know too much
about databases already.)

You don't get actual Stanford credit if you take the classes online, but
I don't particularly want Stanford credit, which means that's not a
deal-breaker. You get some sort of certificate signed by the professors
listing your rank in the class, which will probably be somewhere in the
millions thanks to all the Chinese students who will be cheating on
their assignments, but I don't particularly want a certificate either. I
wouldn't mind some sort of bumper sticker ("MY COMPUTER ALGORITHM IS
SMARTER THAN YOUR HONOR STUDENT AND FURTHERMORE WON'T EVER BE UNEMPLOYED
AND LIVING IN MY BASEMENT UNDER A CRIPPLING MOUNTAIN OF STUDENT-LOAN
DEBT"), but that doesn't seem to be part of the plan.

Most likely I won't have enough time to devote to the classes anyway,
what with work and training the baby to take over the world someday and
trying to finish the novel about the boy who likes to play baseball but
is no good at it. And this isn't helped by the fact that both classes
are going to have hours of online lectures that I'm going to have to sit
through. Lectures!

I [twittered the other
day](http://twitter.com/#!/joelgrus/status/118703313775640576) that if I
have to sit through lectures then you're not really transforming
education. A lot of people (reasonably) interpreted this as a dig at the
Khan Academy, but I was more angry at the Stanford CS department, which
is tech-savvy enough to offer courses over the Internet to millions of
cheating Chinese people and yet not tech-savvy enough to think of a
better method of knowledge transmission than *lectures with slides*,
which were invented by
[Moses](http://www.catholic-convert.com/wp-content/uploads/moses-tablets.jpg)
or possibly even God, making them thousands of years old. I'm happy to
take their quizzes and solve their problem sets and write their
examinations, but the prospect of having to spend time listening to
*lectures* is really glooming me down.

It's not that I don't appreciate what they're doing, but if the Stanford
Computer Science department really wants to revolutionize the
educational process, they should figure out a way to upload information
directly into my brain, or to embed it subliminally in Spider-Man
cartoons, or to make it somehow drinkable. "Machine Learning Class" is
the past; the future belongs to whoever first figures out "Machine
Learning Beverage"!
