Title: Movie Review: Change Congress Chronicles, Volume 1
Date: 2009-11-08 10:14
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Uncategorized
Slug: movie-review-change-congress-chronicles-volume-1

Inspired, perhaps, by Quentin Tarantino's multi-part epic *Kill Bill*,
auteur Larry Lessig has begun work on the not-dissimilar *Change
Congress Chronicles*.

Volume 1, "[Congressman Campbell is a Friend of the Auto
Industry](http://www.archive.org/details/Lessig-ChangeCongressChroniclesVol1JohnCampbell769),"
chronicles Congressman John Campbell, who is a friend of the auto
industry.

The film quickly establishes the character of Campbell, who spent 25 of
his pre-politics years working in the automotive industry. In the next
scene, Campbell landlords for a bunch of used-car lots, earning
somewhere between \$600k and \$6m a year. And a flashback reveals that
Campbell has pocketed \$170k in campaign contributions from the auto
industry over the years.

At which point the film shifts gears to focus on the "Consumer Financial
Protection Agency Act of 2008," which (according to Lessig's voice-over)
is designed to protect consumers from the "shenanigans" of the
"money-lending industry" (which everyone knows is a thinly-veiled
euphemism for "Jews").

The film does not delve into the bill's merits or specifics, relying on
astute viewers to infer that it represents an unalloyed good, based on
both its opposition to "shenanigans" and its titular references to
"consumers" and "protection."

In an easy-to-guess plot twist, Campbell guts the bill by introducing an
amendment that would exempt used-car dealers from its provisions,
allowing them to continue their "shenanigans." The film does not delve
into the amendment's merits either, relying on astute viewers to infer
that it represents an unalloyed bad, based on both its opposition to
opposition to "shenanigans" and its benefits to the used-car industry,
which everyone knows consists primarily of dishonest, wicked people.

The movie ends with a three-fold call to action.

First, viewers are encouraged to "tweet" the Congressman, flooding his
twitbox and letting him know that we're onto him and his
anti-anti-shenanigan agenda.

Second, viewers are encouraged to contact Congress, telling them to
reject "this special interest legislation." Presumably this refers to
the Campbell amendment, which counts as "special interest legislation"
on account of pertaining only to the interests of the "special" used-car
industry, and not the original CFPAA, which pertains to the interests of
the "unspecial" money-lending industry.

Finally, viewers are encouraged to demand public funding of elections.
You see, if there were public funding of elections, then Campbell likely
never would have spent 25 years working in the auto industry. And he
certainly never would have gotten into the landlord-for-used-car-lots
business. So he'd totally have no reason to take a particular interest
in how proposed legislation affected the auto industry.

The film ends on a cliffhanger, as it deliberately avoids answering the
obvious-to-the-viewer question "as long as Congress has the *power* to
write laws favoring one special interest group at the expense of
another, won't these interest groups use *any means they can* (which
obviously includes a lot more than campaign contributions) to get the
laws to favor them and disfavor others?"

I'm excited to see how Lessig resolves this in his next film.
