Title: On the Education of Joelene, Part I: Introduction
Date: 2011-03-10 09:24
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Education, Joelene
Slug: on-the-education-of-joelene-part-i-introduction

Although little Joelene is expected to arrive in about 10 days (which
means that she could show up today if she really felt like it), I toyed
with fate and flew down to Long Beach last weekend to attend the [BIL
conference](http://bilconference.pbworks.com/), which is (in some sense)
the open-source equivalent of the TED conference. It's organized (to the
extent it's organized) by some of my beautiful and amazing friends,
which means it's also an opportunity to visit with them. And, of course,
it's a great chance to meet new beautiful and amazing friends, which I
did, although none of them live in Seattle, which means most likely I
won't see them again until BIL 2012, at which point I'll have a little
Joelene with me.

BIL is a wonderful experience on its own merits, but I'd be lying if I
said I didn't especially appreciate the myriad times people told me how
**excited** they were that someone *like me* was reproducing. Closer to
home, people are certainly excited *for* me, although there's in
addition an unspoken sense that being *my* kid would be somehow akin to
being raised in a haunted house, or a museum of oddities, or possibly a
laserium. BIL is full of people who (for lack of a better description)
legitimately wish that they had been raised in a laserium (or perhaps
even were raised in laseria).

Once you have a kid (or are close to having a kid), people start to ask
you all sorts of questions about how you're raising and educating (or
planning to raise and educate) said kid. Fortunately, education is
something I spend quite a bit of time reading about, thinking about, and
delivering heretical soapbox speeches about.

As a result, when I wasn't talking about "How to Be Funny" or rinsing
out fruit juice jugs or hijacking charity auctions^\*^, I was
pontificating on education. As I told the same stories over and over,
boring more and more people, I started to realize that I should write my
ideas into blog posts. I suspect there will be about seven parts, but I
may add or subtract one or two. It's possible I'll even get them all
written before Joelene shows up.

In the meantime, you can watch [a delightful video of the BIL
experience](http://www.vimeo.com/20855719), if you are so inclined. Part
2 (working title: "The Time Suck") coming soon.

<small>\* The BIL ethos is "if you see something that needs to be done,
do it." The auctioneer (who is a dear friend of mine) was not living up
to my expectations of how lively and aggressive and barker-y a charity
auctioneer should be, so I barged on stage, asked him for the
microphone, channeled my inner Fred Northup, and squeezed an extra
couple of hundred dollars out of the audience. Many people, I'm told,
assumed this was part of the plan all along.</small>
