Title: Republican Tea Party Contract on America
Date: 2010-07-28 17:07
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Politics
Slug: republican-tea-party-contract-on-america

The Democrats seem to have decided that their strategy for this fall
will be to conflate the Tea Party with the Republican Party. Toward this
end, they've crafted a ten-point "[Republican Tea Party [sic] Contract
on America](http://my.democrats.org/page/content/tpgop)."

This "Contract on America" is interesting for a couple of reasons. The
first is that most of the bullet points sound pretty damn appealing, and
the worst of the bunch -- "cap liabilities for the oil spill" -- is
something that I've never heard "Tea Party" types advocate (and even the
"evidence" the Democrats cite for that bullet point seem to have nothing
to do with "capping liabilities," but rather consist of skepticism over
the President's authority to dictate the terms of the liability). Taken
as a whole, it's much better than what either the *real* Republican
party or the Democrats themselves are offering to do, and a candidate
who actually offered the "Contract on America" would -- even with its
flaws -- be my preferred candidate.

The second reason it's interesting is that it departs from the usual
narrative about how the Tea Party is just a bunch of racists whose
primary motivation is hatred of Black people and Brown people.
(Sometimes Red people too.) Curiously, none of the ten "Contract on
America" items have the slightest to do with Black people or Brown
people or Red people. Reading the list, you'd be tempted to conclude
that Tea Partiers were motivated by beliefs about things like "the
proper role of government" and "economics" and "political economy" and
"tax policy." If you didn't already "know" that Tea-Partyism was an
offshoot of racism, you might never figure it out from their list!

And, of course, the third reason it's interesting is that it somehow
manages not once to use the juvenile slur "teabaggers." I bet someone
gets fired for that.
