Title: Uncle Joel's YouTube Concert Series: Songs from before I was born
Date: 2010-07-18 09:48
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Music
Slug: uncle-joels-youtube-concert-series-songs-from-before-i-was-born

The YouTube is possibly the greatest boon for music lovers in the
history of the world. Some might point out that Napster or BitTorrent or
iTunes made it easier to *acquire* and *collect* music, but acquisition
and collection are not the same things as *love*.

Here, then, is a lovingly-curated concert series of a few of my favorite
performances. Today's series is called "Songs from before I was born."

1\. [Led Zeppelin - Dazed and Confused - Denmark
1969](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NZPcASnovAQ)

When I was 17, I would have told you that Led Zeppelin was the greatest
rock band of all time. Now that I'm twice that age (and more), I can't
say that I disagree. The YouTube is full of great live Zeppelin
performances, but this early set (which contains 4 other videos),
performed in a pitch-black auditorium in front of a few dozen Danes
sitting passively on the floor, is stripped down and near-perfect.

<object width="480" height="385"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/NZPcASnovAQ&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><embed src="https://www.youtube.com/v/NZPcASnovAQ&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="480" height="385"></embed></object>

2\. [Chicago Transit Authority - I'm a Man - Beat Club 1968
(?)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxoVfqZDlj0)

If you're my age, you probably think of Chicago as purveyors of cheesy
80s soft rock and love themes from Karate Kid sequels. Thanks to the
YouTube, you can see that there was a point in the distant past where
they absolutely killed it.

<object width="480" height="385"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/zxoVfqZDlj0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><embed src="https://www.youtube.com/v/zxoVfqZDlj0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="480" height="385"></embed></object>

3\. [Edgar Winter Group -
Frankenstein](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x1mV_5-bRPo)

Yes, Edgar Winter is a creepy Scientologist albino with a keytar, and,
yes, Rick Derringer is approximately 3 feet tall, but Edgar keeps
switching instruments mid-song like some sort of albino Scientologist
maniac, and this is a fantastic jam.

<object width="480" height="385"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/x1mV_5-bRPo&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><embed src="https://www.youtube.com/v/x1mV_5-bRPo&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="480" height="385"></embed></object>

4\. [Beatles - Ticket to Ride - Shea Stadium
1965](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egRaEoS3gP8)

This seems to be the sweet spot, where they were absolutely huge but
hadn't gotten super-weird yet. That crowd is insane, and the music is
perfectly done.

[The only good version I can find has [embedding
disabled](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egRaEoS3gP8). Jerks.]

5\. [Seals & Crofts - Summer Breeze - Live 1973 Midnight
Special](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPLfDBcu_U0)

As far as I'm concerned, hippies have only ever done two good things.
One is putting cookie dough in ice cream. The other is this song.

<object width="480" height="385"><param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/mPLfDBcu_U0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0"></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><embed src="https://www.youtube.com/v/mPLfDBcu_U0&amp;hl=en_US&amp;fs=1?rel=0" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" width="480" height="385"></embed></object>

Next time in the concert series: "Hair Metal / Crunk."
