Title: Why Have You Not Signed Up For BIL Already? 
Date: 2012-02-20 07:04
Author: joelgrus
Tags: BIL, Intellectual Property, Life, Personal
Slug: why-have-you-not-signed-up-for-bil-already

I'm sure you've heard of TED, which is a really expensive, really
exclusive annual conference at which famous and/or accomplished people
give lectures to wealthy and/or lucky people. Surprisingly, despite my
fame, accomplishments, wealth, and luck, I have never been invited to
attend or lecture. (Actually, it's not that surprising, given that they
once gave their TED Prize to [Karen
Armstrong](http://www.tedprize.org/2008-winners/#armstrong), my mortal
enemy, and that they seem to like [Nathan
Myhrvold](http://www.ted.com/talks/nathan_myhrvold_cut_your_food_in_half.html),
my other mortal enemy.^1^)

Luckily for me, there is ~~[a non-union, Mexican
equivalent](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uWxcnl8PL_o)~~ an open-source
equivalent, the [BIL conference](http://www.bilconference.com/), which
costs only \$50, and which is open to pretty much everyone. Three years
ago they were kind enough to let me give my "[Your Religion Is
False](http://www.bilconference.com/videos/your-religion-is-false-joel-grus/)"
talk, and then two years ago they didn't firm up the date until it was
too late for me to make travel plans, and then last year they let me
give my lukewarmly-received "How To Be Funny" talk.

This year I plan to outdo them all with my balanced discussion of
intellectual property: "Hitler Loved Patents". Although I have spent the
majority of the past 10 years arguing on the Internet about intellectual
property with various weirdos and libertarians and weirdo libertarians
and libertarian weirdos, it has only recently become acceptable to
express my views in public. And what better way than through a
profanity-laden speed-talking Powerpoint presentation?

There will, of course, be [a large number of other
talks](http://bilconference.pbworks.com/w/page/49917283/BIL%202012-%20Speakers),
many of which will be almost as entertaining and/or compelling as mine.
There will also be, I'm told, a "sex-positive boiler room"^2^ and some
sort of lockpicking workshop, one or both of which certainly addresses
your hesitations about attending.

If it's anything like last year, there will also be interesting breaks
between sessions, where BILders socialize and where crazy people grab
the empty mics and perform spoken-word-poetry-ish rants about free
energy and capitalism, all the while people chuckle nervously and wonder
whether this is a scheduled part of the performance or simply the result
of too little security. There might be coffee too.

There will certainly be a huge assortment of burners, transhumanists,
futurists, cryonicists, libertarians, anti-libertarians, polyamorists,
monoamorists^3^, objectivists, subjectivists, artists, crossfitters,
politicians, entertainers, hosts of invention-related television shows,
hackers, humorists, Paul Grasshoffs, atheists, and doers and makers of
all types. Many of them are my good friends, and many more will be by
the time the weekend is over. (Also, many of them will be my *enemies*
by the end of the conference, since you can't exactly tell people that
the industry they've dreamed of working in their whole lives is morally
on par with the death gulags without alienating a few folks, but such is
the price of progress.)

In addition, the whole event takes place on a boat, which has some sort
of giggly significance that is lost on me but probably has something to
do with some creepy anime that everyone except me downloads and watches
illegally.

Anyway, Long Beach really isn't that far from wherever you are, and \$50
is less money than you'd spend buying a dozen [Original Six Dollar
Burger®s](http://www.carlsjr.com/menu/charbroiled-burgers/the-original-six-dollar-burger/)
at Carl's Junior, so why have you not signed up already? And in the
event you need burgers that badly, Simone gave me [this code for 20% off
the registration](http://bil2012.eventbrite.com/?discount=BILGrus),
which will save you \$10, which means you'll still be able to buy two of
those tasty, tasty Original Six Dollar Burger®s^4^ *and* have the
conference weekend of your life.

So I guess I'm not really sure what your objection is at this point.
Sometimes I hear "Joel, you're biased because the whole event is
organized and produced by your friends," and sometimes I hear "Joel,
surely you're on the take from the Long Beach Convention and Visitors
Bureau and/or Carl's Jr.," and still other sometimes I hear "Joel, you
recommended that I attend the Libertarian National Convention in Anaheim
in 2000, and that really sucked," to which I can only respond, "were you
at the same Libertarian Convention I was at, because I guarantee you
that that was the most fun that anyone's ever had in Anaheim in the
history of mankind."

So can you just go ahead and [sign up
already](http://www.facebook.com/l.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fbil2012.eventbrite.com%2F%3Fdiscount%3DBILGrus&h=VAQGlXP8Q)?

<small>1. I'm only ten and I already got two mortal enemies.</small>\
 <small>2. No, I have no idea what this is either, although I suspect it
has something to do with high-pressure stock trading.</small>\
 <small>3. Monoamorists. It's a word. Look it up.</small>\
 <small>4. Six-dollars is what you put on your tax return, but the cash
price is closer to \$4.</small>
