Title: Why Software Testers Should Run for Congress
Date: 2010-07-22 08:51
Author: joelgrus
Tags: Politics, Technology
Slug: why-software-testers-should-run-for-congress

In my [previous
post](https://joelgrus.com/2010/07/19/why-software-developers-shouldnt-run-for-congress/)
"Why Software Developers Shouldn't Run for Congress" I poked fun at the
idea, proposed by a pie-in-the-sky,
government-would-work-well-if-only-it-were-run-by-*my*-kind-of-people
type, that an influx of software developers would noticeably improve the
quality of our laws.

During a subsequent Facebook discussion, I came up with an additional
"reason" why developers might enjoy Congress: developers hate testing
their code, and Congress never tests before shipping. Of course I was
being flip, but the idea has since gotten stuck in my head.

In software, when you want to make changes to code, you *test* them. You
change small pieces and use [unit
tests](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing) to make sure they
don't break existing functionality. You develop a spec outlining what
the code is *supposed* to do, and then you check that it does those
things before you ship it. You have [code
reviews](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_review) so that other coders
can inspect your code looking for possible unintended consequences. You
let normal users [try to break the
code](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bug_bash) before it ships. You try
[using the code
yourself](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eat_one%27s_own_dog_food) for a
while before you inflict it on your customers. When you know that people
will try to "game" your final product, you [model their
behavior](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threat_model) and try to account
for it in your design.

In particular, if you want to stay in business you don't show up the
night before
[release](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#General_availability)
with thousands of pages of unreviewed, untested, hodge-podge code
[written by the very people hoping to hack your
systems](http://www.dailybreeze.com/news/ci_15485061), full of [hidden
side
effects](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_%28computer_science%29),
[functionality that wasn't in the
spec](https://joelgrus.com/2010/07/21/the-gold-standard-of-health-care-reform/),
[backdoors](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/jul/14/quotas-by-proxy-in-dodd-frank-bill/),
and [billion-dollar
bugs](http://voices.washingtonpost.com/economy-watch/2010/03/the_price_of_healthcare_reform.html).
Unless you're Congress, of course, in which case you stay in business no
matter how sloppy your "coding" habits are.

So while I still don't think Congress would be particularly improved by
the addition of software developers, it sure as hell could benefit from
some *testers*.
